The next thing you're going to need to worry about when
you've got your app finally running in Docker Compose and
everything worked out in your Dockerfile, is to make sure
that your Compose file is set up for file monitoring.
I am a fan of nodemon, which has been around for a long
time in the Node space.
And, nodemon should work in most situations.
There's obviously lots of other tools out there, like
Webpack DevServer and various others that all
set up servers and do monitoring of files.
But, this example is really just going to be focused on
nodemon because it has all the features that I really see
people needing. If you've been using nodemon
a while, then you're probably thinking, maybe I should
have my nodemon watching Docker Compose and restarting
Docker Compose. But, that actually adds a little extra time
to every restart. Because Docker stopping a container,
creating a new one in Docker Compose everytime files
change, that extra couple of hundred milliseconds can
really add up. So, what we're going to do is we're going to
have Docker Compose running nodemon inside it.
We're going to use Docker Compose's YAML to override
the cmd from our Dockerfile.
This won't be changed in the Dockerfile's command.
This will be overriding it with the Docker Compose YAML
command to run nodemon in Node's place.
If you're developing on Windows,
the bad news here is that you need to enable polling on any
of these solutions. Because the file events
on the native file system of your host, in Windows, won't
be sent over the wire of the file networking in
order to get to that Samba share that's running in that
Linux VM. This doesn't matter if you're running Docker
Desktop or Toolbox. Both of those are going to require you
to enable the polling feature.
In some tools, it might be called legacy mode.
Others, it might be called polling, or polling mode.
Really what it is is the Docker Compose just
searching the files that you asked it to to see if they've
changed recently. It's a little more taxing on a system.
It's, in theory, a little bit slower than file I/O events
like we get on Mac and Linux.
In real-world scenarios, with a reasonable set of files,
I don't notice much difference at all.
If you get really large projects, the polling may
affect performance and actually cause a little bit of delay
between saving a file and it noticing the file change.
But, I don't see a lot of complaints in the community about
that yet. Your mileage may vary.
If you have other things you need to do when you're writing
code on your host, maybe you're using minification
tools. Maybe you're doing Sass
CSS. Maybe you're doing TypeScript and you need TypeScript
to be compiled into JavaScript.
All these kind of tools can be run on a nodemon
restart. So, any time you save a file, nodemon would
restart, and you can use a nodemon YAML to configure
those various other tools.
I'm sure there's plenty of examples for each of those tools
in nodemon, given nodemon's popularity.
You can just find those examples online for whatever tools
you need to run.
I'm going to walk you through an example of how I would
use nodemon in a standard environment.
This is an Express example similar to ones we've
used in the past in these lectures.
You can see this example inside the sample nodemon
directory of the course repo.
In here, I have a standard Dockerfile, a sort of a standard
Docker Compose and a package JSON.
I have not yet put nodemon in here to make it work
on my local machine. To get nodemon fully set up on this
system, we will need to do three things.
We're not, again, installing nodemon on the host.
We're installing it inside the container as a dev
dependency. That's kind of how I like to do it.
You might have a preference, and you might see examples
online, where you would add a line to your Dockerfile here.
Just do a run somewhere up top and do an npm install
global of nodemon.
You can certainly do that, and that can be a part of your
Dockerfile. I don't prefer to do it that way just because
I've been around Node a while and I'm used to controlling
nodemon, as well as the other development tools, as a part
of my dev dependencies in my package JSON with npm.
I prefer to control it that way and to install it with my
dependencies there, than doing it in the Dockerfile as a
global install.
There's really no rhyme or reason for either one.
It just depends on which one you want to track the nodemon
version and to worry about that.
You're probably going to have other development
dependencies.
You're going to have to deal with those anyway in the
package JSON. So, you might as well just lump them all
together because ideally, we don't want nodemon in our
production image. We really only want it installed when
we're working locally.
The first thing I want to do here is install nodemon into
my package JSON.  I can use docker compose run to do that.
The name of my service here is express.
Then I can do an npm install of nodemon here.
I want to do a --save dev just
like you would in a normal npm environment to save
it automatically to the package JSON.
As that's running, you can see that my dev dependencies has
been updated with the nodemon package.
Now, I need to have my Docker Compose automatically run
it instead of the Node command when I'm
running Docker Compose.
Instead of typing nodemon directly here, we're going to
have to give it a full path name here because we did not
install nodemon globally.
That's one of the advantages of doing global is that npm
will automatically set up a global link
so that it's accessible from anywhere.
But in our case, I just need to provide the full path.
Then the name of our express starter file.
You'll notice, by the way, that I have my environment set
to node environment development.
That's key because when I run Node, and
I run the npm commands inside my Docker Compose
environment, it needs to be set for development mode so
that those dev dependencies are installed
when I do something like npm install.
If you remember, back in the Dockerfile, the default is
production, which won't install those dev dependencies, by
default, in the image.
So, we are simply going to override that, as well, with the
Docker Compose. One little helper tidbit
here is that if I want to run one-off nodemon commands just
inside the package, or any other standard dev tool,
it's going to be inside my apps Node modules, and not in
the global Node modules, then I need to update
my environment variable for my path.
It's a simple one liner you can put in all your
Dockerfiles. You just do an env path here to override
the path environment variable, with
the bin directory inside your apps Node modules.
Then you just add that to the path variable so
it will see it.
Then once that's done, any time I
rebuild and run this image, I will then
be able to run any of the tools that I have installed as
dev dependencies without having to specify their full path.
I could also do this in the Docker Compose, but I tend to
do this one in a Dockerfile so that it's just easy
regardless of where I'm running the image.
Lastly, I want to do a docker compose build just to make
sure that my image has all the changes I need in it.
Now, we can do a docker compose up, and instead of running
Node, this will run nodemon.
You'll notice over in our Docker Compose,
I did the bind mount.
If you remember from a previous lecture on bind mounting, I
use the simple option.
The scenario one, where I'm simply bind mounting the
entire app and its Node modules to the host.
So, all of those Node modules are stored in the host, and
it's a simple example here.
Now that I've got this set up, I should be able to go in
and change something in my app.
Even just a comment here.
Once I save this file, we'll see
that nodemon restarted my app.
Hopefully, this works for you.
It's not a whole lot more complicated that for nodemon.
It just kind of works that way.
As long as you get it installed and found in your path, you
should be good to go.